Introduction to Amazon DynamoDB

Lab Overview
Amazon DynamoDB is a fast and flexible NoSQL database service for all applications that need consistent, single-digit millisecond latency at any scale. It is a fully managed database and supports both document and key-value data models. Its flexible data model and reliable performance make it a great fit for mobile, web, gaming, ad-tech, IoT, and many other applications.

In this lab, you will create a table in Amazon DynamoDB to store information about a music library. You will then query the music library and, finally, delete the DynamoDB table.

In this lab, you will:
  Create an Amazon DynamoDB table
  Enter data into an Amazon DynamoDB table
  Query an Amazon DynamoDB table
  Delete an Amazon DynamoDB table



Task 1:
        Create a New Table
        In this task, you will create a new table in DynamoDB named "Music".
        Primary key : Artist
        Sort key : Song
        Your table will use default settings for indexes and provisioned capacity.

Task 2:
        Add Data
        Data 1:
        For Artist (String) : Pink Floyd
        For Song (String) : Money
        Also create an additional attributes like :
          Album (String) :  The Dark Side of the Moon
          Year (Number): 1973

        Data 2:
        Artist	(String)	John Lennon
        Song	(String)	Imagine
        Album	(String)	Imagine
        Year	(Number)	1971
        Genre	(String)	Soft rock
        Note that this item has an additional attribute called genre. This is an example of each item being capable of having different attributes without having to pre-define a table schema.

        Data 3:
        Attribute Name	Attribute Type	Attribute Value
        Artist	String	Psy
        Song	String	Gangnam Style
        Album	String	Psy 6 (Six Rules), Part 1
        Year	Number	2011
        LengthSeconds	Number	219
        Once again, this item has a new LengthSeconds attribute identifying the length of the song. This demonstrates the flexibility of a NoSQL database.


Task 3:
        Modify an Existing Item :

        Click Psy.
        Change the Year from 2011 to 2012.

Task 4:
        Query the Table
        There are two ways to query a DynamoDB table: Query and Scan.

        A query operation finds items based on Primary Key and optionally Sort Key. It is fully indexed, so it runs very fast.

        Click the drop-down list showing Scan and change it to Query.
        Fields for the Partition Key and Sort Key are now displayed.

Enter these details:
Partition key:
Psy
Sort key:
Gangnam Style
Click Start search.

        The song quickly appears in the list. A query is the most efficient way to retrieve data from a DynamoDB table.
        Alternatively, you can scan for an item. This involves looking through every item in a table, so it is less efficient and can take significant time for larger tables.

        Click the drop-down list showing Query and change it back to Scan.

Click  Add filter, then: Scan
For Enter attribute, type:
Year
Change String to Number
For Enter value, type:
1971
Click Start search
Only the song released in 1971 is displayed.

Task 5:
        Delete the Table
        In this task, you will delete the Music table, which will also delete all the data in the table.
