Introduction to Amazon EC2 Auto Scaling using Launch Template

Overview :
This lab shows you how to use Auto Scaling to automatically launch Amazon EC2 instances in response to conditions that you specify. You will then test Auto Scaling by terminating a running instance and watching while Auto Scaling automatically creates a replacement instance.

By the end of this lab you will be able to:
  Create a Launch Template
  Create an Auto Scaling group
  Test the Auto Scaling Infrastructure
  View the results of the Auto Scaling launch


Theory :

AMAZON EC2 AUTO SCALING :
Auto Scaling helps you ensure that you have the correct number of Amazon EC2 instances available to handle your application’s workload. You create collections of EC2 instances, called Auto Scaling groups.

You can specify the minimum number of instances in each Auto Scaling group, and Auto Scaling ensures that your group never goes below this size.
You can specify the maximum number of instances in each Auto Scaling group, and Auto Scaling ensures that your group never goes above this size.
If you specify a desired capacity, Auto Scaling ensures that your group always has a fixed number of instances.

If you specify scaling policies, then Auto Scaling will launch new instances or terminate existing instances when the demand on your application increases or decreases.
Auto Scaling only launches new instances or terminates existing instances. It does not Stop or Start instances.

AUTO SCALING GROUP :
Your EC2 instances are organized into Auto Scaling groups and are treated as a logical unit for the purposes of scaling and management. When you create an Auto Scaling group, you can specify its minimum, maximum and desired number of EC2 instances.

LAUNCH TEMPLATE :
Launch templates enable you to store launch parameters so that you do not have to specify them every time you launch an instance. For example, a launch template can contain the AMI ID, instance type, and network settings that you typically use to launch instances. When you launch an instance using the Amazon EC2 console, an AWS SDK, or a command line tool, you can specify the launch template to use.

SCALING PLANS :
A Scaling Plan tells Auto Scaling when and how to scale. Types of plans are:

1. Maintain current instance levels at all times: Auto Scaling performs a periodic health check on running instances within an Auto Scaling group. When Auto Scaling finds an unhealthy instance, it terminates that instance and launches a new one.

2. Manual scaling: Manual scaling is the most basic way to scale your resources. You specify a change in the maximum, minimum, or desired capacity of your Auto Scaling group. Auto Scaling then manages the process of creating or terminating instances to maintain the updated capacity.

3. Scale based on a schedule: Sometimes you know exactly when you will need to increase or decrease the number of instances in your group, simply because that need arises on a predictable schedule. Scaling by schedule means that scaling actions are performed automatically as a function of time and date.

4. Scale based on demand: Define parameters that control the Auto Scaling process. For example, you can create a policy that calls for enlarging your fleet of EC2 instances whenever the average CPU utilization rate stays above ninety percent for fifteen minutes. This is useful when you can define how you want to scale in response to changing conditions, but you don’t know when those conditions will change. You can set up Auto Scaling to respond for you.

PRICING FOR AUTO SCALING
There are no additional fees with Auto Scaling. You simply pay for the Amazon EC2 instances that it launches.


Task 1:
        Create a Launch Template
        Before you can create an Auto Scaling group using a launch template, you must create a launch template that includes the parameters required to launch an EC2 instance, such as the ID of the Amazon Machine Image (AMI) and an instance type.

        In this task you will create a launch template.

        In the Launch template name and description section configure:

        Launch template name: Lab-template
        Template version description: version 1
        For AMI, select Amazon Linux 2 AMI.

        For Instance type, select t3.micro.

        For Security groups select Default.

        Scroll to the bottom of the screen, then click Create launch template

        Click View launch templates

Task 2:
        Create an Auto Scaling Group
        In this task, you will configure an Auto Scaling group with one instance.

        Click Create an Auto Scaling group then configure:

        Auto Scaling group name: Lab-Group
        Launch template: select the launch template that you created.
        In the Network section, configure:
        VPC: Default VPC
        Subnets: select all the subnets

        On the Configure advanced options page, configure:

        Health check grace period: 60
        Monitoring:  Enable group metrics collection within CloudWatch
        By default, the health check grace period is set to 300. Since this is a lab environment, you have set it to 60 to avoid having to wait very long to see auto scaling perform the first health check.

        On the Configure group size and scaling policies page, configure:
        Minimum capacity: 1
        Maximum capacity: 2

        Click Next till you get to the Review page.

        Click Create Auto Scaling group

Task 3:
        Verify your Auto Scaling group
        Now that you have created your Auto Scaling group, you can verify that the group has launched your EC2 instance.

        Click on your Auto Scaling Group.
        Examine the Group Details to view information about the Auto Scaling group.

        Click the Activity tab.
        The Status column contains the current status of your instance. When your instance is launching, the status column shows PreInService. The status changes to Successful once the instance is launched. You can click the refresh button to see the current status of your instance.

        Click the Instance management tab.
        You can see that your Auto Scaling group has launched your EC2 instance and it is in the InService lifecycle state. The Health Status column shows the result of the EC2 instance health check on your instance.

        Click the Monitoring tab. Here you can see monitoring related info for your Autoscaling group.

Task 4:
        Test Auto Scaling

        In the Instance management tab, click the Instance ID. It will look similar to: i-1234abcd1234.
        You will be taken to the Amazon EC2 console the Instances page.


        Select  your instance.

        On the Instance state  menu, select Terminate instance

        In the Terminate instance dialogue box, click Terminate

        The instance will change to shutting-down.

        Wait until the Instance State changes to terminated. Click refresh  occasionally to update the state.

        In the left navigation pane, click Auto Scaling Groups.

        Click on your auto scaling group.

        Click the Instance management tab.

        You will see the initial instance status as Terminating. Soon thereafter you will see a new instance appear with a status of Pending or InService.

        Click the Activity tab.
        All scaling activities are logged here. After the scaling activity starts. Click the  to view entries for the launch and termination of the first instance and then an entry for the launch of the new instance.

Conclusion
 Congratulations! You now know how to:

Create a Launch Template
Create an Auto Scaling group
Test the Auto Scaling Infrastructure
View the results of the Auto Scaling launch
