Static Website Using Amazon S3


Task 1 :
        Create S3 Bucket

- Navigate to S3.

- Click Create bucket.

- Set the following values:

- Bucket name: samplewebsite- with the AWS account number or another series of numbers at the end to make it globally unique
  Region: US East (N. Virginia) us-east-1
  In the Bucket settings for Block Public Access section, un-check Block all public access.

- Ensure all four permissions restrictions beneath it are also un-checked.
  Check the box to acknowledge that turning off all public access might result in the bucket and its objects becoming public.

- Leave the rest of the settings as their defaults.

- Click Create bucket.

- Select the bucket name.

- Click Upload.

- Click Add files, and upload your own or the error.html and index.html files from the GitHub repo.

If it appears, check the bucket versioning warning box to acknowledge the existing objects with the same name will be overwritten.

Leave the rest of the settings as their defaults.

- Click Upload.

Click Exit in the upper right.

Step 2:
      Enable Static Website Hosting

- Click the Properties tab.
- Scroll to the bottom of the screen to find the Static website hosting section.

- On the right in the Static website hosting section, click Edit.

- On the Edit static website hosting page, set the following values:

Static website hosting: Enable
Hosting type: Host a static website
Index document: index.html
Error document: error.html
Click Save changes.

Scroll back down to the Static website hosting section.

Open the listed endpoint URL in a new browser tab. We'll see an 403 Forbidden error message.

Step 3:
      Apply Bucket Policy
Back in S3, click the Permissions tab.

In the Bucket policy section, click Edit.

In the Policy box, enter the following JSON statement (replacing <BUCKET_ARN> with the bucket ARN provided right above the Policy box):

{
  "Version":"2012-10-17",
  "Statement":[{
     "Sid":"PublicReadGetObject",
     "Effect":"Allow",
     "Principal": "*",
     "Action":["s3:GetObject"],
     "Resource":["<BUCKET_ARN>/*"]
  }]
}
Note: Ensure the trailing /* is present so the policy applies to all objects within the bucket.

Click Save changes.

Refresh the browser tab with the static website (the endpoint URL we opened a minute ago). This time, it should load the site correctly.

Add a / at the end of the URL and some random letters (anything that's knowingly an error). This will display our error.html info.

Conclusion
Congratulations on completing this hands-on lab!
